{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12360\viewh12100\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Previews
\fs24 \
Hey, are previews necessary?\
\
If so might like to have blockTree preview mode extend dynamically to function loop.  But how, since the block tree may or may not directly see function loop?\
	-there could be a "previewable" superclass that they both inherit.  With some kind of singleton behavior (encapsulated global behavior).\
\

\fs28 topsBlockTree
\fs24 \
Something that would be cool, but might be too clever to be practical, is letting a block tree noded define a function loop mode, and also define a mode that concatenates its parent mode.  This would be a strong form of tree organization.  It would require that a block be associated with a function loop.  It might be better left as a design pattern, rather than a foundation behavior.\
\
The block tree may need a custom iterationMethod--a function handle.  Must return one of the blockTree's children, else done.  Or similar...\
\

\fs28 topsDataLog
\fs24 \
Should probably exclude handle objects.  Storing these is counter to the idea of writing data out to disk.  This would be a key difference vs. topsModalList.  At most, classes should be able to dump themselves as a struct into the log.\
\

\fs28 topsDataLogGUI
\fs24 \
Triggering and range slider allow focus on specific events.  But one potential ugliness is trying to focus on a subset of events with the same mnemonic.  e.g. "trial start" events from just the third block.  I guess you'd trigger on "start block three" and "trial start", then restrict the view to end above the fourth block (which contains "trial start" events as well).\
\
The intuition is really to click on the axes.  Would be easy for this to be an alternate to the range slider.  What about setting an arbitrary zero time, though?  Could replay with this zero and let earlier events go negative?  Not as it is now, since new events and triggers can set the timeZero...\
\

\fs28 ScrollingControlGrid
\fs24 \
Should have flexible widths for different-length labels.  This is clumsy given the conceit of packing in "subposition"s for handle elements of a 2D array.  Would prefer not to store an extra flag.  What if adjacent, redundant control handles can get a merged subposition?\
\
It might be good to have range selections, like with a shift modifier.\
\

\fs28 topsFunctionLoopGUI
\fs24 \
In making encounter, I noticed that once things are "concurrent" and in queues, and getting checked with a function loop, things get harder to conceptualize and debug.  So the goal of the function loop gui should be to make this conceptualization easier--during development and sandboxing.\
}