#summary How to download and install Tower of Psych
#labels Featured

Installing Tower of Psych is easy, because it's pure Matlab.  You just
  * Get the files.
  * Add them all to your Matlab path.

Here's how.

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

==Get the Files==

====Subversion====
The easiest way to get Tower of Psych and keep the files up to date is with the [http://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.7/svn.intro.whatis.html Subversion] tool.  Subversion is free.

Here's the Subversion "checkout" command for Tower of Psych:
{{{
svn checkout http://tower-of-psych.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ tower-of-psych
}}}

====Download====
If you can't use Subversion, you can download a [http://tower-of-psych.googlecode.com/files/tower-of-psych-r398.zip static copy of Tower of Psych].

There are [http://code.google.com/p/tower-of-psych/downloads/list more downloads] here at the project site.

==Get Started==
Once you have all the files, add them to your Matlab path.  From the Matlab desktop, click on `File -> Set Path... -> Add with Subfolders` and choose the folder where you saved Tower of Psych.

You can get started with Tower of Psych by reading about [ComponentsAndConcepts] or by trying demos which are included with the code.
  * `tower-of-psych/demos/` contains simple demos for Tower of Psych components
  * `tower-of-psych/demos/tasks/` contains a few complex demos that integrate components into working tasks

==Optional==
Tower of Psych can work with a couple of external projects for advanced functionality.  These are not required for running demos and making tasks.

====Graphing====
To use the graphing capabilities of Tower of Psych, you must install [http://www.graphviz.org/ GraphViz] on your computer.  GraphViz is a free tool for generating diagrams, flow charts, and the like.

The graphing tools and demos are in
{{{
tower-of-psych/utilities/graphing/
}}}

====Testing====
To run the Tower of Psych unit tests, you must install the [http://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/22846-matlab-xunit-test-framework MATLAB xUnit Test Framework].

Once this is installed, you can run all of the Tower of Psych unit tests from Matlab, like this:
{{{
cd tower-of-psych
topsRunTests();
}}}